The dialect of Lisp used in this book is *Scheme*. 
[Scheme Interpreter](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61a/fa14/assets/interpreter/scheme.html)

Three mechanisms that every powerful programming language has for combining simple ideas to form more complex ideas:
1. primitive expressions  
2. means of combination  
3. means of abstraction  
In programming, we deal with ***procedures*** and ***data***.
## Expressions
**combination**: formed by delimiting a list of expressions within parentheses in order to denote procedure application  
**operator** & **operand**    
***prefix* notation**: the convention of placing the operator to the left of the operands  
***pretty-printing***: in which each long combination is written so that the operands are aligned vertically and the structure get displayed clearly.
## Naming and the Environment
The name identifies a *variable* whose *value* is the object.  
In the Scheme dialect of Lisp, we name things with `Define`  
Complex programs are constructed by building, step by step, computational objects of increasing complexity. To associate values with symbols for later retrieving, the interpreter has some kind of memory called ***global environment***.
## Evaluating Combinations
Notice that the evaluation of `define` is an exception. We don’t apply `define` to two arguments. exceptions like this are called *special forms*. Each special form has its own evaluation rules.
## Compound Procedures
About ***procedure definitions***

The general form is
```Lisp
(define (<name> <formal parameters>) <body>)
(define (square x) (* x x))
(square 12)
144

(square (+ 2 5))
49
```
Compound procedures are used in exactly the same way as primitive procedures.
## The Substitution Model for Procedure Application
```Lisp
(define (sum-of-squares x y)
  (+ (square x) (square y)))

(define (f a)
  (sum-of-squares (+ a 1) (* a 2)))

(f 5)
(sum-of-squares (+ a 1) (* a 2))
(sum-of-squares (+ 5 1) (* 5 2))
(+ (square 6) (square 10))
(+ (* 6 6) (* 10 10))
(+ 36 100)
136
```
This is *applicative-order evaluation*. (which is the one that Lisp uses, we also have *normal-order evaluation*)  
The process is called the *substitution model* for procedure application.
## Conditional Expressions and Predicates
`cond` (stands for "conditional") is used in Lisp for notating *case analysis*
```Lisp
(cond (⟨p₁⟩ ⟨e₁⟩)
      (⟨p₂⟩ ⟨e₂⟩)
      …
      (⟨pₙ⟩ ⟨eₙ⟩))


(define (abs x)
  (cond ((> x 0) x)
        ((= x 0) 0)
        ((< x 0) (- x))))
```
*clause*: `(<p> <e>)`  
*predicate*: `<p>`, it produces either `true` or `false`  
*consequent expression*: `<e>`  
**Logical composition operations**
```Lisp
(if ⟨predicate⟩ ⟨consequent⟩ ⟨alternative⟩)

(and ⟨e₁⟩ … ⟨eₙ⟩)

(or ⟨e₁⟩ … ⟨eₙ⟩)

(not ⟨e⟩)
```
---
Exercise 1.2 
```Lisp
(/ (+ 5 4 (- 2 (- 3 (+ 6 (/ 4 5))))) (* 3 (- 6 2) (- 2 7)))
-0.24666666666666667
```
Exercise 1.3
```Lisp
(define (square x) (* x x))
(define (sum-of-squares a b) (+ (square a) (square b)))
(define (func a b c)
  (if (> a b)
      (if (> b c) (sum-of-squares a b) (sum-of-squares a c))
      (if (> c a) (sum-of-squares b c) (sum-of-squares a b))))
(func 1 2 3)
13
 ```

Exercise 1.4  
```Lisp
(define (a-plus-abs-b a b)
  ((if (> b 0) + -) a b))
```
Define a function called `a-plus-abs-b` that takes two parameter `a` and `b`. If `b` is greater than 0, we add `a` to `b`, and if `b` is less than or equal to 0, we subtract `b` from `a`.

Exercise 1.5  
If the interpreter uses *applicative-order* evaluation, it will print
If the interpreter uses *normal-order* evaluation, it will print 

---
## Example: Square Roots by Newton's Method
 In mathematics we are usually concerned with declarative (what is) descriptions, whereas in computer science we are usually concerned with imperative (how to) descriptions. 
 ```Lisp
 (define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (if (good-enough? guess x)
      guess
      (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x)))

(define (improve guess x)
  (average guess (/ x guess)))

(define (average x y) 
  (/ (+ x y) 2))

(define (good-enough? guess x)
  (< (abs (- (square guess) x)) 0.001))

(define (sqrt x)
  (sqrt-iter 1.0 x))

(sqrt 9)
3.00009155413138
```
 `Sqrt-iter` demonstrates how iteration can be accomplished using no special construct other than the ordinary ability to call a procedure. Until now we can write any purely numerical program that one could write in C or Pascal.

---
Exercise 1.6